content/docs/devtools.mdx, before:

## DevTools

A floating, draggable, resizable debug panel — similar to TanStack Query DevTools — that surfaces tree state, event logs, performance metrics, and a structure diff view. Ships with the package as a zero-dependency component using only inline styles.

### Quick Start

```tsx
import {
  BlockTree,
  BlockTreeDevTools,
  useDevToolsCallbacks,
} from 'dnd-block-tree'

function App() {
  const [blocks, setBlocks] = useState(initialBlocks)
  const { callbacks, events, clearEvents } = useDevToolsCallbacks()

  return (
    <>
      <BlockTree
        blocks={blocks}
        renderers={renderers}
        containerTypes={['section']}
        onChange={setBlocks}
        onDragStart={callbacks.onDragStart}
        onDragEnd={callbacks.onDragEnd}
        onBlockMove={callbacks.onBlockMove}
        onExpandChange={callbacks.onExpandChange}
        onHoverChange={callbacks.onHoverChange}
      />
      <BlockTreeDevTools
        blocks={blocks}
        containerTypes={['section']}
        events={events}
        onClearEvents={clearEvents}
        getLabel={(block) => block.title}
      />
    </>
  )
}
```

A circular trigger button appears in the corner of the viewport. Click it to open the panel.

### Panels

The DevTools card has two columns: a **main column** (always visible) and a **diff column** (toggled via the "Diff" button in the title bar).

#### Tree State

Live snapshot of the block tree structure:

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Blocks** | Total number of blocks in the flat array |
| **Containers** | Blocks whose type is in `containerTypes` (can have children) |
| **Max Depth** | Deepest nesting level in the tree (root = 1) |
| **Validation** | Checks for cycles, orphans, and stale parent refs via `validateBlockTree()` |

#### Event Log

Chronological log of tree events. Each entry shows a timestamp, a color-coded badge, and a summary. Event types:

| Badge | Callback | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| **DRAG** | `onDragStart` | A block was picked up |
| **DROP** | `onDragEnd` | A block was dropped or drag was cancelled |
| **MOVE** | `onBlockMove` | A block was reparented to a new position |
| **EXPAND** | `onExpandChange` | A container was expanded or collapsed |
| **HOVER** | `onHoverChange` | The pointer entered a drop zone |

Up to 100 events are retained. Click **Clear** to reset.

#### Performance

Render metrics for the DevTools component itself:

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Render Count** | How many times the DevTools component has rendered |
| **Last Render** | Time since the previous render |
| **Block Count Delta** | Change in block count since the last render |

#### Structure Diff

Toggle with the **Diff** button. Shows the full tree with change indicators:

- **+** (green) — block was added since the last render
- **~** (amber) — block was moved (parentId or order changed)
- No marker — unchanged

Each row shows the block type, label (via `getLabel`), and current order value.

### Interaction

- **Open/close**: Click the trigger button or the × in the title bar
- **Drag**: Grab the title bar to reposition the panel (clamped to viewport)
- **Resize**: Drag any edge or corner to resize (min 280×200)
- **Diff toggle**: Auto-widens the panel to accommodate the second column

### `BlockTreeDevToolsProps`

```typescript
interface BlockTreeDevToolsProps<T extends BaseBlock = BaseBlock> {
  blocks: T[]
  containerTypes?: readonly string[]
  events: DevToolsEventEntry[]
  onClearEvents: () => void
  getLabel?: (block: T) => string
  initialOpen?: boolean
  position?: 'bottom-left' | 'bottom-right' | 'top-left' | 'top-right'
  buttonStyle?: React.CSSProperties
  panelStyle?: React.CSSProperties
}
```

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `blocks` | `T[]` | — | The current block array |
| `containerTypes` | `readonly string[]` | `[]` | Block types that act as containers |
| `events` | `DevToolsEventEntry[]` | — | Event log entries from `useDevToolsCallbacks` |
| `onClearEvents` | `() => void` | — | Callback to clear the event log |
| `getLabel` | `(block: T) => string` | `(b) => b.type` | Label function for the diff view |
| `initialOpen` | `boolean` | `false` | Whether the panel starts open |
| `position` | `string` | `'bottom-left'` | Corner for the trigger button |
| `buttonStyle` | `CSSProperties` | — | Custom styles for the trigger button |
| `panelStyle` | `CSSProperties` | — | Custom styles for the floating card |

### `useDevToolsCallbacks`

Returns pre-wired callback functions that log events for the DevTools panel.

```typescript
function useDevToolsCallbacks<T extends BaseBlock = BaseBlock>(): {
  callbacks: DevToolsCallbacks<T>
  events: DevToolsEventEntry[]
  clearEvents: () => void
}
```

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `callbacks` | `DevToolsCallbacks<T>` | Object with `onDragStart`, `onDragEnd`, `onBlockMove`, `onExpandChange`, `onHoverChange` |
| `events` | `DevToolsEventEntry[]` | Array of logged events (newest first, max 100) |
| `clearEvents` | `() => void` | Clear all logged events |

Spread the callbacks onto your `BlockTree`:

```tsx
const { callbacks, events, clearEvents } = useDevToolsCallbacks()

<BlockTree
  {...otherProps}
  onDragStart={callbacks.onDragStart}
  onDragEnd={callbacks.onDragEnd}
  onBlockMove={callbacks.onBlockMove}
  onExpandChange={callbacks.onExpandChange}
  onHoverChange={callbacks.onHoverChange}
/>
```

<CalloutCard title="Production builds">

DevTools adds minimal overhead but is intended for development. You can conditionally render it:

```tsx
{process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development' && (
  <BlockTreeDevTools blocks={blocks} events={events} onClearEvents={clearEvents} />
)}
```

</CalloutCard>

Commit message:

feat: draggable trigger button with corner snapping and localStorage persistence
The DevTools trigger button can now be dragged to any viewport corner.
On release it snaps to the nearest quadrant with an eased transition.
The chosen corner is saved to localStorage and restored on mount. The
position prop serves as the initial default when no stored preference
exists.

content/docs/devtools.mdx, after:

## DevTools

A floating, draggable, resizable debug panel — similar to TanStack Query DevTools — that surfaces tree state, event logs, performance metrics, and a structure diff view. Ships with the package as a zero-dependency component using only inline styles.

### Quick Start

```tsx
import {
  BlockTree,
  BlockTreeDevTools,
  useDevToolsCallbacks,
} from 'dnd-block-tree'

function App() {
  const [blocks, setBlocks] = useState(initialBlocks)
  const { callbacks, events, clearEvents } = useDevToolsCallbacks()

  return (
    <>
      <BlockTree
        blocks={blocks}
        renderers={renderers}
        containerTypes={['section']}
        onChange={setBlocks}
        onDragStart={callbacks.onDragStart}
        onDragEnd={callbacks.onDragEnd}
        onBlockMove={callbacks.onBlockMove}
        onExpandChange={callbacks.onExpandChange}
        onHoverChange={callbacks.onHoverChange}
      />
      <BlockTreeDevTools
        blocks={blocks}
        containerTypes={['section']}
        events={events}
        onClearEvents={clearEvents}
        getLabel={(block) => block.title}
      />
    </>
  )
}
```

A circular trigger button appears in the corner of the viewport. Click it to open the panel.

### Panels

The DevTools card has two columns: a **main column** (always visible) and a **diff column** (toggled via the "Diff" button in the title bar).

#### Tree State

Live snapshot of the block tree structure:

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Blocks** | Total number of blocks in the flat array |
| **Containers** | Blocks whose type is in `containerTypes` (can have children) |
| **Max Depth** | Deepest nesting level in the tree (root = 1) |
| **Validation** | Checks for cycles, orphans, and stale parent refs via `validateBlockTree()` |

#### Event Log

Chronological log of tree events. Each entry shows a timestamp, a color-coded badge, and a summary. Event types:

| Badge | Callback | Description |
|-------|----------|-------------|
| **DRAG** | `onDragStart` | A block was picked up |
| **DROP** | `onDragEnd` | A block was dropped or drag was cancelled |
| **MOVE** | `onBlockMove` | A block was reparented to a new position |
| **EXPAND** | `onExpandChange` | A container was expanded or collapsed |
| **HOVER** | `onHoverChange` | The pointer entered a drop zone |

Up to 100 events are retained. Click **Clear** to reset.

#### Performance

Render metrics for the DevTools component itself:

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Render Count** | How many times the DevTools component has rendered |
| **Last Render** | Time since the previous render |
| **Block Count Delta** | Change in block count since the last render |

#### Structure Diff

Toggle with the **Diff** button. Shows the full tree with change indicators:

- **+** (green) — block was added since the last render
- **~** (amber) — block was moved (parentId or order changed)
- No marker — unchanged

Each row shows the block type, label (via `getLabel`), and current order value.

### Interaction

- **Open/close**: Click the trigger button or the × in the title bar
- **Move trigger button**: Drag the trigger button to any corner of the viewport. On release it snaps to the nearest corner with an eased transition. The chosen corner is persisted in `localStorage` and restored on next mount.
- **Drag panel**: Grab the title bar to reposition the panel (clamped to viewport)
- **Resize**: Drag any edge or corner to resize (min 280×200)
- **Diff toggle**: Auto-widens the panel to accommodate the second column

### `BlockTreeDevToolsProps`

```typescript
interface BlockTreeDevToolsProps<T extends BaseBlock = BaseBlock> {
  blocks: T[]
  containerTypes?: readonly string[]
  events: DevToolsEventEntry[]
  onClearEvents: () => void
  getLabel?: (block: T) => string
  initialOpen?: boolean
  position?: 'bottom-left' | 'bottom-right' | 'top-left' | 'top-right'
  buttonStyle?: React.CSSProperties
  panelStyle?: React.CSSProperties
}
```

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
|------|------|---------|-------------|
| `blocks` | `T[]` | — | The current block array |
| `containerTypes` | `readonly string[]` | `[]` | Block types that act as containers |
| `events` | `DevToolsEventEntry[]` | — | Event log entries from `useDevToolsCallbacks` |
| `onClearEvents` | `() => void` | — | Callback to clear the event log |
| `getLabel` | `(block: T) => string` | `(b) => b.type` | Label function for the diff view |
| `initialOpen` | `boolean` | `false` | Whether the panel starts open |
| `position` | `string` | `'bottom-left'` | Initial corner for the trigger button (overridden by `localStorage` if the user has dragged it) |
| `buttonStyle` | `CSSProperties` | — | Custom styles for the trigger button |
| `panelStyle` | `CSSProperties` | — | Custom styles for the floating card |

### `useDevToolsCallbacks`

Returns pre-wired callback functions that log events for the DevTools panel.

```typescript
function useDevToolsCallbacks<T extends BaseBlock = BaseBlock>(): {
  callbacks: DevToolsCallbacks<T>
  events: DevToolsEventEntry[]
  clearEvents: () => void
}
```

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `callbacks` | `DevToolsCallbacks<T>` | Object with `onDragStart`, `onDragEnd`, `onBlockMove`, `onExpandChange`, `onHoverChange` |
| `events` | `DevToolsEventEntry[]` | Array of logged events (newest first, max 100) |
| `clearEvents` | `() => void` | Clear all logged events |

Spread the callbacks onto your `BlockTree`:

```tsx
const { callbacks, events, clearEvents } = useDevToolsCallbacks()

<BlockTree
  {...otherProps}
  onDragStart={callbacks.onDragStart}
  onDragEnd={callbacks.onDragEnd}
  onBlockMove={callbacks.onBlockMove}
  onExpandChange={callbacks.onExpandChange}
  onHoverChange={callbacks.onHoverChange}
/>
```

<CalloutCard title="Production builds">

DevTools adds minimal overhead but is intended for development. You can conditionally render it:

```tsx
{process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development' && (
  <BlockTreeDevTools blocks={blocks} events={events} onClearEvents={clearEvents} />
)}
```

</CalloutCard>
