content/docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

## Installation & Setup

### Install

Install dnd-block-tree along with its peer dependencies:

```bash
npm install dnd-block-tree @dnd-kit/core @dnd-kit/utilities
```

Requires **React 18+** and **@dnd-kit/core 6+**.

### Packages

As of v2.0.0, the library is a monorepo with three packages:

| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `dnd-block-tree` | Full React library — re-exports everything from `@dnd-block-tree/react` |
| `@dnd-block-tree/react` | React adapter — components, hooks, @dnd-kit integration |
| `@dnd-block-tree/core` | Framework-agnostic core — types, reducers, tree factory, utilities (zero deps) |

**Existing users**: `import { ... } from 'dnd-block-tree'` continues to work with no code changes. The `dnd-block-tree` package re-exports the full API.

**Core-only install** (for non-React use cases like server-side tree manipulation, testing, or other frameworks):

```bash
npm install @dnd-block-tree/core
```

No peer dependencies required for core-only usage.

### Peer Dependencies

When using the React packages (`dnd-block-tree` or `@dnd-block-tree/react`):

| Package | Version | Purpose |
|---------|---------|---------|
| `react` | >= 18.0 | Core React |
| `react-dom` | >= 18.0 | DOM rendering |
| `@dnd-kit/core` | >= 6.0 | Drag-and-drop engine |
| `@dnd-kit/utilities` | >= 3.0 | DnD utility functions |

### Quick Start

```tsx
import { BlockTree, type BaseBlock, type BlockRenderers } from 'dnd-block-tree'
import { useState } from 'react'

// 1. Define your block type extending BaseBlock
interface MyBlock extends BaseBlock {
  type: 'section' | 'task' | 'note'
  title: string
}

// 2. Create renderers for each block type
const renderers: BlockRenderers<MyBlock, ['section']> = {
  // Container types get extra props: children, isExpanded, onToggleExpand
  section: ({ block, children, isExpanded, onToggleExpand }) => (
    <div className="border rounded p-2">
      <button onClick={onToggleExpand}>
        {isExpanded ? '▼' : '▶'} {block.title}
      </button>
      {isExpanded && <div className="ml-4">{children}</div>}
    </div>
  ),
  // Leaf types get standard props: block, isDragging, depth
  task: ({ block }) => (
    <div className="p-2 bg-white border rounded">{block.title}</div>
  ),
  note: ({ block }) => (
    <div className="p-2 italic text-gray-500">{block.title}</div>
  ),
}

// 3. Render the tree
function App() {
  const [blocks, setBlocks] = useState<MyBlock[]>([
    { id: '1', type: 'section', title: 'My Tasks', parentId: null, order: 0 },
    { id: '2', type: 'task', title: 'Build the app', parentId: '1', order: 0 },
    { id: '3', type: 'task', title: 'Write tests', parentId: '1', order: 1 },
    { id: '4', type: 'note', title: 'Remember to deploy', parentId: null, order: 1 },
  ])

  return (
    <BlockTree
      blocks={blocks}
      renderers={renderers}
      containerTypes={['section']}
      onChange={setBlocks}
    />
  )
}
```

<CalloutCard title="Key Concepts">

**BaseBlock** -- All blocks must have `id`, `type`, `parentId` (null for root), and `order`. Extend this with your own fields.

**containerTypes** -- An array of block type strings that can have children. These renderers receive `children`, `isExpanded`, and `onToggleExpand` props.

**renderers** -- A map of `type → render function`. TypeScript enforces that every block type has a renderer, and container types get the correct props.

**onChange** -- Called with the full updated block array after every drag-and-drop operation.

</CalloutCard>

### Next Steps

- [BlockTree Props](/docs/api) -- full prop reference
- [Callbacks & Events](/docs/callbacks) -- hook into drag lifecycle
- [Type Reference](/docs/types) -- all exported types

Commit message:

docs: restructure sidebar to surface headless core
Add dedicated "Headless Core" nav group with new Core Overview page
and moved Utilities. Rename "Core API" to "React API". Update intro
page tagline and feature grid to lead with framework-agnostic nature.

content/docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

## Installation & Setup

### Install

Install dnd-block-tree along with its peer dependencies:

```bash
npm install dnd-block-tree @dnd-kit/core @dnd-kit/utilities
```

Requires **React 18+** and **@dnd-kit/core 6+**.

### Packages

As of v2.0.0, the library is a monorepo with three packages:

| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `dnd-block-tree` | Full React library — re-exports everything from `@dnd-block-tree/react` |
| `@dnd-block-tree/react` | React adapter — components, hooks, @dnd-kit integration |
| `@dnd-block-tree/core` | Framework-agnostic core — types, reducers, tree factory, utilities (zero deps) |

**Existing users**: `import { ... } from 'dnd-block-tree'` continues to work with no code changes. The `dnd-block-tree` package re-exports the full API.

**Core-only install** (for non-React use cases like server-side tree manipulation, testing, or other frameworks):

```bash
npm install @dnd-block-tree/core
```

No peer dependencies required for core-only usage. See the [Core Overview](/docs/core) for the full headless API.

### Peer Dependencies

When using the React packages (`dnd-block-tree` or `@dnd-block-tree/react`):

| Package | Version | Purpose |
|---------|---------|---------|
| `react` | >= 18.0 | Core React |
| `react-dom` | >= 18.0 | DOM rendering |
| `@dnd-kit/core` | >= 6.0 | Drag-and-drop engine |
| `@dnd-kit/utilities` | >= 3.0 | DnD utility functions |

### Quick Start

```tsx
import { BlockTree, type BaseBlock, type BlockRenderers } from 'dnd-block-tree'
import { useState } from 'react'

// 1. Define your block type extending BaseBlock
interface MyBlock extends BaseBlock {
  type: 'section' | 'task' | 'note'
  title: string
}

// 2. Create renderers for each block type
const renderers: BlockRenderers<MyBlock, ['section']> = {
  // Container types get extra props: children, isExpanded, onToggleExpand
  section: ({ block, children, isExpanded, onToggleExpand }) => (
    <div className="border rounded p-2">
      <button onClick={onToggleExpand}>
        {isExpanded ? '▼' : '▶'} {block.title}
      </button>
      {isExpanded && <div className="ml-4">{children}</div>}
    </div>
  ),
  // Leaf types get standard props: block, isDragging, depth
  task: ({ block }) => (
    <div className="p-2 bg-white border rounded">{block.title}</div>
  ),
  note: ({ block }) => (
    <div className="p-2 italic text-gray-500">{block.title}</div>
  ),
}

// 3. Render the tree
function App() {
  const [blocks, setBlocks] = useState<MyBlock[]>([
    { id: '1', type: 'section', title: 'My Tasks', parentId: null, order: 0 },
    { id: '2', type: 'task', title: 'Build the app', parentId: '1', order: 0 },
    { id: '3', type: 'task', title: 'Write tests', parentId: '1', order: 1 },
    { id: '4', type: 'note', title: 'Remember to deploy', parentId: null, order: 1 },
  ])

  return (
    <BlockTree
      blocks={blocks}
      renderers={renderers}
      containerTypes={['section']}
      onChange={setBlocks}
    />
  )
}
```

<CalloutCard title="Key Concepts">

**BaseBlock** -- All blocks must have `id`, `type`, `parentId` (null for root), and `order`. Extend this with your own fields.

**containerTypes** -- An array of block type strings that can have children. These renderers receive `children`, `isExpanded`, and `onToggleExpand` props.

**renderers** -- A map of `type → render function`. TypeScript enforces that every block type has a renderer, and container types get the correct props.

**onChange** -- Called with the full updated block array after every drag-and-drop operation.

</CalloutCard>

### Next Steps

- [BlockTree Props](/docs/api) -- full prop reference
- [Callbacks & Events](/docs/callbacks) -- hook into drag lifecycle
- [Type Reference](/docs/types) -- all exported types
